Aspiration for the Land of Great Bliss
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

chok chu dü shyi gyalwa sé ché dang
Unleash the power of the great truth and compassion1
khyepar lama orgyen pema jung
Of the victorious buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs throughout the ten directions and four
times,
arya taré dorjé shyönnu yi
And especially the Oḍḍiyāna Guru Padmasambhava,
tukjé denpa chenpö tsal chung la
Ārya Tārā and Vajrakumāra.
dak gi shé gyü sekpar jepa yi
As the fierce flames of the five poisonous mental afflictions
nyönmong duk ngé mewal drakpo dang
Burn and blaze within my mind,
khyepar dö sé kampé dungwa yi
And I am beset by desire and craving in particular,
lar yang sipar yang yang khor shying nar
I must circle again and again, tormented, in conditioned existence.
dadung dindré wang du dak gyur na
If I continue to succumb like this in future,
ngensong dukngal drakpo nyongwar ngé
I will surely experience the intense misery of the lower realms.
dena gönpo khyé nam tukjé yi
Therefore, all you guardians in your compassion,
né ngen len gyi namtok ngenpa nam
Let all my negative thoughts based on dysfunctional tendencies
nyurwa nyi du shyompar dzé du sol
Be swiftly and surely eradicated, I pray.
chinché lar mi kyewar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings so that they may never recur.
lona chö dro damchö lam du long
Cause my mind to turn toward the Dharma, the Dharma to progress along the path,
lam gyi trul shyi trulpa yeshe su
The path to pacify delusion and delusion to dawn as wisdom.
charwar lama yidam tukjé kyob
Gurus and yidam deities, guard me with your compassion.
sipé mé tsok shyiwar dzé du sol
Quench the fires of worldly existence, I pray.
chö tün samjor yishyin drubpa dang
Cause my wishes and actions that accord with the Dharma to succeed,
changchub lam gyi barché shyiwar dzö
And pacify all obstacles on the path to awakening, I pray.

kyema kyi hü gönpo tukjé chen
Kyema Kyihü! O compassionate protectors,
lé ngen dak la chen gyi zik su sol
Look kindly upon me, an evildoer, I pray.
zik né lé ngen wang du mi tongwar
Do not permit me to fall prey to negative deeds,
yangdak ta dang tokpa khyepar chen
But inspire me with your blessings so that I may swiftly develop
nyurdu gyü la kyewar jingyi lob
The genuine view and extraordinary realization.

di né tsé pö nyi du deden shying
As soon as I depart from this life, may I be reborn
dren chok öpakmé gön shyab drung du
In the blissful realm, in the presence of the supreme guide Lord Amitābha,
kyé né changchub lungten tobpar shok
And receive a prophecy of my future awakening.
dak la drel dang ming tsam töpa nam
May all those connected to me, even those who merely hear my name,
ngensong dukngal tadak mi nyong shying
Never experience the sufferings of the lower realms,
shying chok dewachen du kyewar shok
But take birth in the supreme realm of Sukhāvatī.

dorna dak gi jawa chi gyipa
In short, in everything that I do
rangdön milam tsam du ang mi sem shying
May I never consider my own self-interest even in my dreams,
shyen la penpa khonar gyurwa la
But always act purely to bring benefit to others.
gönpo jamyang kuntuzang sok kyi
In this, may the protector Mañjughoṣa, Samantabhadra and others
jitar mönpa shyindu drub gyur chik
Ensure that all this comes to pass, exactly in accordance with my aspirations.

This was written as an aspiration in a state of sadness on the sixth day of the tenth month
of the Water Snake year.2

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bde chen zhing gi smon lam phyogs bcu dus bzhi rgyal
ba sras bcas ma/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 12: 361–362
↑ There are two versions of this text in the 2012 edition of Jamyang Khyentse's collected writings.
In one, entitled Chu sbrul lor yid skyo nas bris pa'i smon lam (Aspiration Written
in Sadness During the Water Snake Year), this phrase is given as "great bliss" (bde ba chen
po). But here I follow the reading of the second occurrence, in the text is entitled Bde
chen zhing gi smon lam, where the line appears as "great truth" (bden pa chen po).↑ Corresponding
to 12 November 1953.