Brief Amitābha Sleeping Practice
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Take refuge and generate bodhicitta by reciting ‘Sangye chötsok… etc.’ three times:
sangye chö dang tsok kyi chok nam la
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
changchub bardu dak ni kyab su chi
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
dak gi jin sok gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
Then recite the single verse beginning ‘Malü semchen...’:
malü semchen kun gyi gön gyur ching
You are the protectors of all beings, every single one.
dü dé pung ché mizé jomdzé lha
You are the deities who remorselessly destroy the māras and their forces.
ngönam malü jishyin khyen gyurpé
You who know all things just as they are, in their true nature,
chomden khor ché né dir shek su sol
Enlightened ones, with your retinues, come now to this place!
om amitabha hrih sapariwara é hyé hi benza samadza | pema kama laya tom
Oṃ amitābha hrīḥ saparivāra ehy ehi vajra samājaḥ | padma kamālaya stvam ||
Thus offer a seat.
Then perform the seven branches with ‘Jinyé su dak...etc.’:
1. Prostration
jinyé su dak chok chü jikten na
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
dü sum shekpa mi yi sengé kün
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
dak gi malü dedak tamché la
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
lü dang ngak yi dangwé chak gyi o
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.

zangpo chöpé mönlam tob dak gi
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
gyalwa tamché yi kyi ngönsum du
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
shying gi dul nyé lü rab tüpa yi
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
gyalwa kün la rabtu chaktsal lo
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
2. Offering
dul chik teng na dul nyé sangye nam
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
sangye sé kyi ü na shyukpa dak
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
detar chö kyi ying nam malüpa
And so I imagine them filling
tamché gyalwa dak gi gangwar mö
Completely the entire space of reality.

dedak ngakpa mizé gyatso nam
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
yang kyi yenlak gyatsö dra kün gyi
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
gyalwa kün gyi yönten rab jö ching
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
dewar shekpa tamché dak gi tö
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.

metok dampa trengwa dampa dang
To every buddha, I make offerings:
silnyen nam dang jukpa duk chok dang
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
marmé chok dang dukpö dampa yi
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
gyalwa dedak la ni chöpar gyi
The brightest lamps and finest incense.

naza dampa nam dang dri chok dang
To every buddha, I make offerings:
chema purma rirab nyampa dang
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
köpa khyepar pakpé chok kün gyi
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
gyalwa dedak la ni chöpar gyi
Arranged in perfect symmetry.

chöpa gang nam lamé gya chewa
Then the vast and unsurpassable offerings—
dedak gyalwa tamché la yang mö
Inspired by my devotion to all the buddhas, and
zangpo chö la depé tob dak gi
Moved by the power of my faith in Good Actions—
gyalwa kün la chaktsal chöpar gyi
I prostrate and offer to all you victorious ones.
3. Confession
döchak shyedang timuk wang gi ni
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
lü dang ngak dang deshyin yi kyi kyang
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
dikpa dak gi gyipa chi chipa
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
dedak tamché dak gi sosor shak
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
4. Rejoicing
chok chü gyalwa kün dang sangye sé
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
ranggyal nam dang lob dang mi lob dang
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
drowa kün gyi sönam gangla yang
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
dedak kün gyi jesu dak yi rang
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
5. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma
gang nam chok chü jikten drönma nam
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
changchub rimpar sangye machak nyé
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
gönpo dedak dak gi tamché la
I exhort you: all of you protectors,
khorlo lanamepar korwar kul
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
6. Requesting the Buddhas not to Enter Nirvāṇa
nya ngen da tön gang shyé dedak la
Joining my palms together, I pray
drowa kün la pen shying dewé chir
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa,
kalpa shying gi dul nyé shyukpar yang
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
dak gi talmo rab jar solwar gyi
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
7. Dedication
chaktsalwa dang chö ching shakpa dang
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
jesu yi rang kul shying solwa yi
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
gewa chungzé dak gi chi sakpa
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
tamché dak gi changchub chir ngo’o
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye öpakmé la chaktsal lo kyab su chi
o
Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Amitābha, to you I pay homage! In you
I take refuge!
Recite his name like this three times.
Then generate fervent devotion and continue with:
dün gyi nangwa tayé kyi
The Buddha Amitābha, 'Limitless Light' is before me.
tukké hrih lé nyipa jung
From the syllable Hrīḥ at his heart a second syllable emerges,
shang buk yé né rangnyi kyi
Passes through his right nostril and enters my left nostril,
nabuk yön shyuk nyinggé ü
From where it descends to the centre of my heart.
özer nangwa rab tröpé
It radiates light and rays of light,
dikdrib bakchak chepa jang
Which purify my misdeeds, obscurations and habitual patterns.
lung chir song dang lhenchik tu
Then, together with my exhalation of breath,
nabuk yé né chomden gyi
It passes through my right nostril to enter
shang buk yön shyuk hrih la tim
The conqueror's left nostril and dissolve back into the Hrīḥ.
gyalwé tuk dang rang gi sem
My own mind and the victorious one's wisdom mind
yermé lodé ngang du shyak
Merge indivisibly and I rest in a state beyond the ordinary mind.
Recite this, practising the visualization again and again in coordination with your breathing,
and merging your mind with the wisdom mind at the end. When sleeping, you can fall asleep
in this state. Alternatively, it is fine if, when rising from the session, Amitābha dissolves
into you, or you remain in the non-referential state, and then you recite prayers of
aspiration, as elaborately or briefly as you prefer.

Thus, Chökyi Lodrö wrote this in response to a request from Nub Lama Kunzang Chöpel. May there
be virtue and auspiciousness.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "'od dpag med kyi nyal bsgom mdor bsdus/" in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol.
7: 531